esquivada | 2022-09-30 14:35:16 UTC | #1

we currently have a protocol reward system based on a maturity % that is acquired depending on the dissolution time and the  participation in the governance, at the moment we want to make this maturity liquid, we must split a new neurone where after going through a 7-day dissolution process  the final liquidity will be modulated based on the price of the PCI.

The problem that this protocol entails in the current state of the IC ecosystem is that it makes it highly inflationary due to the great divergence between the newly minted ICP and the burned ICP.

The solution I propose would be simple and logical.  At the moment of wanting to make maturity liquid, in the process of modulation in the dissolution of the new neuron, do not do it based on the ICP market price, instead do it based on a public numerical index that represents the amount of ICP burned or transformed into cycles.  
The greater the activity of development and ICP burned, the greater the index and the greater the final liquidity of that new neuron.

With this system we encourage long-term staking, since the greater the time, the greater the growth in the IC ecosystem and the greater the rate of ICP burned.  Consequently, greater reward incentives will be obtained by dissolving the maturity with the highest ICP burn rate.

In addition, in this way , the dissolution of maturity in the short and medium term is discouraged, thus slowing down the new Minting of ICP and inflation.

-------------------------

esquivada | 2022-09-30 20:29:44 UTC | #2

higher growth = higher ICP burned = higher ICP minted for rewards and proportionally vice versa if growth is reversed.  In this way, we reward governance by encouraging the growth of the ecosystem in the medium and long term and dissuade short-term minting that generates hyperinflation.

-------------------------

jwiegley | 2022-09-30 20:44:00 UTC | #3

I would ask that proposals "changing how maturity works" be considered very carefully, because you are effectively rug-pulling everyone who piled in ICP for 8 years based on return figures that were very much promoted in the early days. Already modulation has introduced uncertainty "for the sake of the network" that only adds complexity for neuron holders themselves. That vote was hotly contested, if you remember.

-------------------------

esquivada | 2022-09-30 20:51:38 UTC | #4

I understand you but if we want to survive we must improve the current tokenomics, we all have the power to vote and to change things if the majority decides so

-------------------------

jwiegley | 2022-10-01 04:28:03 UTC | #5

I agree that tokenomics could stand some improvements. One thing I think could have a dramatic impact is to allow trading of neurons on a secondary market. This would allow holders' risk to be monetized, and might result in more ICP remaining locked up, because holders wouldn't necessarily need to disburse to recover capital. Implementing this would only require the transfer of neuron ownership to another key, ideally requiring the signature of both the old key and the new key before finalizing the transfer (to defend against incorrectly entered neuron ids).

-------------------------

esquivada | 2022-10-01 07:21:44 UTC | #6

Great idea 100% agree

-------------------------

Infinity-and-beyond | 2024-05-07 20:49:41 UTC | #7

🔥🔥🔥
Here is another someone crazy proposal to reduce inflation :)
Have voluntary token burn mechanisms. Sounds crazy but with the right incentives people will burn their ICP :)

Step into the realm of voluntary token burn mechanisms, where the line between madness and brilliance blurs into a frenzy of excitement!  Imagine a world where every burnt ICP sparks a flame of change, where the ordinary becomes extraordinary with just the flicker of a virtual bonfire.

Step 1: Burn your ICP 
Embark on an adventure like no other as you journey to a website teeming with possibilities! Choose your destiny as you select from a myriad of options, from igniting a tiny spark with a fraction of ICP to unleashing the blaze with a golden inferno! Every burn fuels the flames of progress!

People go to a website as see options such as:
Burn 0.0001 ICP -> NNS Wallet gets 1 white star and 1 stick 🔥
Burn 0.001 ICP   -> NNS Wallet gets 2 white star and 2 sticks 🔥🔥
Burn 0.01 ICP     -> NNS Wallet gets 3 white star and 3 sticks 🔥🔥🔥
Burn 0.1ICP        -> NNS Wallet gets 4 white star and 4 sticks 🔥🔥🔥🔥
Burn 1 ICP          -> NNS Wallet gets 1 GOLDEN STAR ! and 1 branch  🔥🔥🔥🔥🔥
Burn Custom Amount  -> NNS Wallet gets n number of stars and sticks 🔥🔥🔥🔥🔥

Step 2: Huge Bonfire Celebration!
Witness the spectacle of a lifetime as we gather around the roaring bonfire at the dawn of each month! Feel the heat as participants from around the globe unite to toss their sticks and branches into the fiery abyss! With each click, the blaze grows fiercer, fueled by the collective passion of the community!

-Only wallets with sticks/branches can participate but anyone can go to the bonfire to celebrate!
-Whatever sticks are left over, get automatically burned OR they can save n number of sticks for a later bonfire.
-At the top of the website are a sorted list of wallet profiles that participated the burn this month for recognition! 
-At the bottom of the website is a chat for people to hang out (like an OpenChat hangout)

Step 3: Reward
Prepare to reap the rewards of your fiery devotion as 95% of the ICP in the burn wallets is consumed by the flames of change! But wait, what about the other 5%?! One lucky soul shall emerge from the ashes as the recipient of 5% of the ICP, chosen by fate itself!

The wallets with stars get more valuable as they are more rare. These stars are permanently etched to that wallet's identity and of course can get sold for a higher price of IDGeek. Behold the birth of a new era, where stars shine brighter than ever before! These celestial treasures, etched into the very fabric of your wallet's identity, become coveted symbols of prestige and power!

Of course there could be other incentive such as NFTs or a ticket to meet Dominic Williams haha.
The rewards and number of winner can very month to month.

-------------------------

