Onadrac | 2024-05-28 19:03:22 UTC | #1

Hello. On May 2nd someone managed to steal my Internet Identity and steal my 2 neurons. Main one has around 14,300 ICP in it and it will fully dissolve in about 5 months. I am racing to get it frozen before then. When I contacted Dfinity support they told me that I could make a proposal to freeze the neuron. But I've just learned that this would not be a regular proposal. That this is because there is currently no ability to freeze a neuron on ICP. That this ability would have to be developed first. I wish I knew that going into this endeavor. I was barking up the wrong tree for a couple of weeks. So now, instead of presenting this to the ICP community in general, getting support, and then submitting the proposal in hopes of it getting approval from the community. I am instead presenting this idea to the developers of ICP to see if I can get this idea off the ground and implemented in time to freeze my life's savings before it gets cashed in .
Here's a website that I created with my story and evidence within: https://someonestolemyicp.com/
I would love to hear your feedback. Thank you.

-------------------------

asjn3e | 2024-05-28 19:22:45 UTC | #2

Do you have access to the internet identity that neurons are attached to?

-------------------------

Onadrac | 2024-05-28 21:14:39 UTC | #3

No, the thief took over my Internet Identity and the 2 neurons.
I believe it was something like an inside job. Whoever it was, that person was logged into my Kraken account. Not affected by me changing my password. That person was on the phone with me while he was in my account. Doing things and blaming them on someone who was hacked into it. When it was him the whole time. And he scared the hell out of me. Got me to do things that I wouldn't normally do. He knew my full SSN and driver's license number. And got me to go to a site that looked just like Kraken. That's what he used to steal my identity. Now I know that I would need to recover the new recovery phrase in order to get my neurons back. But I would like to be able to freeze them perpetually. So that the thief would need me in order to be able to cash in. And I wouldn't authorize an unfreeze until they are in my possession.
It looks like this is my only hope.

-------------------------

