stdevelopr | 2024-04-12 10:35:42 UTC | #1

Hi everyone. I want to introduce an idea that i think could revolutionize how software is developed, and I'm looking for developers to discuss about...

The Idea:
I propose creating a decentralized development platform on Internet Computer. This platform would provide an environment where individuals with ideas, but lacking technical expertise, can submit their project requirements. From there, developers would take the lead in bringing these ideas to life, while the entire development process would be managed transparently and democratically through a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO).

Here's how it would function:
Individuals with project ideas submit their requirements to the platform.
    Developers take on the task of building and proposing merge requests based on these requirements.
    The DAO, representing the platform's community, votes on the proposed changes.
    Once approved, developers are rewarded for their contributions.

So to resume, instead of having DAOs with closed teams the idea is to have the possibility to have DAOs where a group of developers that is itself a DAO would take care of the products.

What are your thoughts? Let's discuss details and refine a model where it could work.

-------------------------

domwoe | 2024-04-12 09:17:59 UTC | #2

That's an interesting idea worth exploring! Did you do a bit of research already if similar idea exist outside the ICP ecosystem?

-------------------------

stdevelopr | 2024-04-12 10:05:26 UTC | #3

Well, there are many platform for developers to work, but everything is centralized.
Yo go to upwork for example, find someone that needs something to be built, you apply to the work, deliver and get paid.
The problem is that someone that wants to build something need to have a team with developers and team leads to inspect and merge the code. So this process is centralized on someone.
To use github it is needed someone that is going to be responsible, to merge and take care of the codebase.
The idea here is to have a community to take care of this development process. Like a company that have a lot of developers and deliver products to clients, but in this case the company is a DAO and the developers are the community that owns the company.
Even if there are similar ideas in other ecosystems they need to rely on centralized services and the development process would be almost the same as traditional companies. On internet computer, the codebase could be on chain and controlled by smart contracts.
So to begin, i think it would be important to have something like a github inside the structure of internet computer. What I don't see is how to have a tokenomics for this process and how it could be structured.

-------------------------

Samer | 2024-04-12 10:02:44 UTC | #4

While definitely interesting to explore, there's one challenge that comes to my mind. 

To truly innovate and come up with solutions that are worthwhile of putting in the effort of building them out, one does require a certain level of expertise and technical insight to make the right design choices. Especially on a platform like the IC, where one needs to strike the right balance between features, security guarantees, cost and the available resources.  

If anyone is allowed to submit ideas, then the ratio of ideas to devs wanting to work on them is going to be to out of balance.

How can we incentivize those who can help refine submitted ideas and create a higher quality set of project ideas worth building?

-------------------------

stdevelopr | 2024-04-12 10:27:43 UTC | #5

I imagine something like the NNS, where we have the launchpad. But instead of having DAOs with closed teams, we would have proposals of products to be discussed, funded and developed by the developers DAO.
It would be like a superset of the DAOs, where it is not needed a closed team to build anymore, but the group of developers that is itself a DAO would take care of the products.

-------------------------

Samer | 2024-04-12 10:33:52 UTC | #6

And how could we ensure devs that are interested in working for the DAO can be held accountable by the DAO?

Just thinking out loud

-------------------------

stdevelopr | 2024-04-12 10:38:45 UTC | #7

By the code they deliver. It could be controlled by the merging process if the codebase is inside the internet computer infrastructure. Thinking out loud as well.

-------------------------

