kvic | 2024-03-15 22:41:24 UTC | #1

I would like to address my thoughts on the IC DAO community and give feedback on my experience.

As I see it at the moment, the proposals and topics are mostly for programmers, projects and system type discussions. The non-programmer stakeholders have nothing to say and in my case find the experience is overtaken by bullying and abuse. 

Do non-programmers have a future in the IC as Stakeholders?

What drives me to be part of this project is my experience of WEB3 and the changes I believe this project could make.

DFINITY makes changes to the IC as per comments and concerns but will give the stakeholders the power at some point to make policy changes.

Then there is a concern that the IC will be taken over by centralised stakeholders.

The current form of DAO on the IC in my opinion has failed.

Those who send me personal comments from this forum are not read by me and are deleted as you should post your comments on the forum. 

This forum should not allow personal contact to forum members.

To give power to the majority we will need to remove the minority.

A proposal discussion is about questions and ideas not abuse. We all have different levels of understanding and misconception.

Each discussion member should be referred to the documentation by a content controller on misunderstanding of the project and policy. Those who think they are Influencers should realise we are all equal and will make our own decision and when these influencers bully the forum members we should be able to respond with selecting a disapproval icon of an abusive comment that counts up like the love icon, for them to see community disapproval.

Non-programmer stakeholders can provide useful feedback and discussion on concerns about the projects being built on the IC.

I believe that Bitcoin was developed to overcome the problems faced with Governments and Centralised Companies monetary practices and yet see the same stupidity being played out with Airdrops, Points and Rewards on crypto.

I don’t support any sectors that do not provide a family friendly or healthy environment and can stay on WEB3.

We should be able to vote on whether a project can be built on the IC, just as any proposal changes to the IC has to have a majority from stakeholders. As a non-programmer I have knowledge and experience of the internet and can make a contribution to this project.

The biggest audience of this project are the users which will make or break the IC not the programmers. I have to put up with WEB3 and the programmers that wrote that environment and the result is Information Overload, Privacy Concerns, Cyberbullying and Trolling, Fake News and Misinformation, Addiction and Distraction, Cybersecurity Threats, Erosion of Face-to-Face Communication, Digital Divide, Online Scams and Fraud to name a few.

Each project on the SNS has its own stakeholders to monitor and vote on each proposal but the IC does not and invites the same problem on WEB3. 

How do I trust the IC when we know that developers can say we are secure but we all know our data is being stolen but not sure to what extent by the current internet experiences. Those who think they are clever tailoring my content from my searches only causes distrust for me as some of the projects on the IC.

Are moral concerns pushed aside for project numbers? 

DAO on this forum will not succeed until all stakeholders participate and feel comfortable to make a comment without bullying and the minority taking over.

-------------------------

ckMood | 2024-03-16 00:03:34 UTC | #2

I agree that governance on the IC is quite exclusionary. If you do not understand Motoko and how the IC functions at large, you will mostly be in the dark and quite powerless in regards to your capacity to make an educated vote. I also think that it’s funny that we can delegate our votes to other neurons but how do I know that the Neuron’s I follow are making educated votes and that they’re not voting against my wishes. While I understand that that is inherent to giving your voting power to someone else, we should seek ways to minimize a mismatch in user goals and purposes and known neuron voting patterns. 

Some of your later points are a bit confusing and hard to understand.

-------------------------

