Roman | 2022-01-29 14:01:39 UTC | #1

Hi everyone,

Let us start the discussion about the Dom’s fascinating proposal. 

Firstly, I understand the proposal is also to preserve people from taxes, I think we should already determine if it would be possible combinating the current system with the one that proposes @dominicwilliams, because not everybody has this taxes problem. If possible, then let us determine if it is preferable or not. 

But if it is not possible or preferable to combine the current tokenomics and this new one, let us continue :

Even if I understand the purpose, the collateral effect will be a doubled unpredictability about APY. The IC is very beautiful, but let us not forget that its gas are mainly investors and none investors invest blindly. They need at least « hard numbers », if not hard money. 

Currently, investors can’t calculate their fiat APY, but they can calculate the ICP APY. With this proposal, they must add a second and wide volatility (the ICP APY one) to the first one and depending on the first one. We even may speak about a tripled volatility given this : « the disbursal of maturity will occur after a delay, which process cannot be canceled, and the amount of new ICP the maturity shall produce will depend on ICP price trends as current **AFTER** the delay ».


We may be entering into a bear market, so basically people are preparing to earn - 30% ICP rather than + 5%, maybe for a long while. So not only people would not able to sell their minted ICP for a good price, but they would also have less ICP. But even the day when ICP would rise again, at the moment they would initiate the disbursing delay hoping having + 5%, they would not know if during the delay, the price won’t drop, making them earning - 30% rather than the + 5%, and - 30% of a low priced ICP. 

I fear that a lot of new investors will not enter into a such undetermined APY and that a lot of current stakers will encounter financial difficulties. Let us not forget that the tokenomics must be thought not only for the current stakers, but for the tomorrow investors, and it must be explainable. We would have very complex tokenomics, very much more than other projects, and let us not lie to ourselves : investors would choose the simplest APY. So let us be careful : a white paper for the geek has been forwarded this month, let us not forget that the tokenomics must not be thought for ICP geeks. The geeks we are, are not enough to make the ICP sustainable economically. We must catch new investors, and these new ones would be the more vague and the less attractives of the whole market. People will even prefer stable coin staking. So let us not forget that we must expand, not stay between us. 

Look forward to reading you all.

-------------------------

llbrunoll | 2022-01-28 03:14:55 UTC | #2

Yes. You got it! Please, friends, read DW proposal with great care. This change means we will lose our ability to collect rewards according to APY. The number of rewards you can dissolve into real ICP will be subjected to a +5% to -30% factor, according to the PRICE TREND!!! So, imagine you are planning to have an ICP 8yrs neuron as your retirement... Your monthly income will not fluctuate only with the price! There will be possible -30% cuts in your minted ICP, based on market trends... Why this? Please, people, READ carefully... For me, IMO, it means we have even less control over our investment... WE ARE ALREADY IN A RISK GAME, staking 8yrs... Now, there is even more risk, because if the trend is up, we will get + 5% in mints, but a downtrend could incur an -30% cut in minted ICPs... Bad, bad, bad for 8yr stakers... Think about that... There is no balance in this +5% to -30% value. (Those numbers have no base whatsoever... Ask yourself: "Where did this +5 and -30 come from? Based on what? So... Dfinity will keep throwing arbitrary new rules to the tokenomics... till when? What is next?" IMO, things cannot be that arbitrary. This is not an experiment, where we could simply play to lose it all... We are talking about ICP. The Internet Computer Protocol, which is supposed to be the backbone of Web3.  

+5 to -30. Based on what? 

Things can not be that arbitrary!

-------------------------

llbrunoll | 2022-01-28 03:21:31 UTC | #3

And this is not about reducing rewards... it is about tricking the investor's decision to-mint/not-to-mint the stake rewards (+ trick taxation). 

So, in order to -possibly- reach the goal of tricking taxation... we are going to SACRIFICE our ability to decide when to mint our rewards into ICPs.

Investors ability to FREELY decide when to sell their investment/rewards is being attacked, to produce "beautiful Blue-Sky tax-conditions" FOR ICP WHALES (we will give this to ICP whales -NOW-, and in exchange, we sacrifice our Decision-Making -far in the future-). Why a retail (non-whale) investor would like to have that? Why?

-------------------------

diegop | 2022-01-28 04:01:42 UTC | #4

[quote="llbrunoll, post:3, topic:10530"]
Why a retail (non-whale) investor would like to have that? Why?
[/quote]

**Important Caveat: I was not aware Dom would write this proposal. I found out same time as everyone else, and I only know what is written on the proposal. I have never even spoken to Dom about taxes**

I don’t really consider myself a whale, but I can see a benefit for folks like me living in the US (where admittedly is just one jurisdiction, among many that make up IC community):

Due to current US tax laws, I am forced to spawn and sell my NNS rewards every few days. I cannot afford to merge. I cannot afford to “wait for a better price” and hodl. I cannot even wait for a LOW price and HODL, so I can start the capital gains clock. I have to spawn/sell. Under current interpretation, most CPAs I have spoken to recommend I spawn and sell immediately. This causes a large sell pressure for stakers like me. In short, I do NOT have ability to choose when to sell. Taxes force me to sell. 

Everything is based on numbers. There is certainly some number range where having probabilistic, undetermined maturity is not worth it, but considering my biggest drag on staking is taxes (as it decreases ability to compound, forces constant selling, and accumulated tax bill even when I do nothing), there are probably others like me. I would gladly love to have compounding ICP… but alas, tax implications means I cannot afford to pay for it.

Do I know that I represent the majority? Absolutely not.
It’s possible other jurisdictions and people have different situations. I have no intellectually honest way to know.

TLDR: there is a class of (non-whale) people like me for whom this would benefit because it would improve staking significantly. I have no way of knowing if such group is the majority of folks in the community.

-------------------------

tsetse | 2022-01-28 04:00:52 UTC | #5

At first reading, the proposal appears to conflate two distinct issues, which is rarely a good thing. The first issue involves taxation and, if I understand the proposal correctly, it makes taxing maturity impossible by making the amount of ICP disbursed by that maturity a function of eventual market conditions, and therefore impossible to precisely compute in advance. This seems an ingenious strategy, and I am strongly in favour of it, although I can imagine tax authorities in some jurisdictions finding a way around the new hurdle if the ICP ecosystem grows prominent enough to warrant careful scrutiny and a crackdown. 
The second issue involves price volatility, and the proposal seeks to kill two birds with one stone by not only side-stepping the tax collector but mitigating price fluctuation while doing so. To this end, it pegs the amount of ICP produced from a given amount of maturity to whether the price of ICP is rising or falling. The first problem with the proposal is that, while it acknowledges price volatility, it leaves stakers entirely vulnerable to market whims: to quote the text, "Since these calculations will be made *after* the delay that occurs when disbursal is triggered, the neuron owner will be incentivized to make intuitive judgments about the markets and the timing of their sales." Why would anybody ever *incentivize* investors to make intuitive judgements, which are notoriously fallible? If the rate of disbursal is to be pegged to price volatility at all, it ought to relate to whether the market has been trending up or down *at the moment of clicking the disburse ICP button*. Why leave stakers vulnerable to a market crash occurring *after* they have made their decision? Surely, a formula could be worked out based on the previous week's price gain / fall, so investors can trust firm calculations rather than intuitions about where the market is heading?
Second, the potential maximum penalty of 30% is ridiculously high. Dfinity should not be in the business of trying to smooth market fluctuations, unless those become systemic threats. Any such attempt will convince even more people that IC lacks the true crypto ethos, and will be seriously counterproductive because it will depress the long-term ICP price trend by turning potential investors away from the asset. Why would I invest in something which will end with a lottery with little upside and a potentially large downside?
My suggestion is, decouple the tax dodge from the price control attempt and try to reframe the proposal concentrating exclusively on the first of the two. To this end, my question is, does it matter precisely how uncertain the rewards related to maturity are? Could the reward / penalty be, say, 1% and still serve the same tax purpose? That might be a tolerable threshold for stakers, especially if it is calculated at the moment of hitting the disburse button.

-------------------------

diegop | 2022-01-28 04:03:42 UTC | #6

[quote="tsetse, post:5, topic:10530"]
The first issue involves taxation and,
[/quote]

Yes I should be clear, I was referring to the first, not the second.

That is a fair point. 

To be honest, I am still working in my brain through the implications of the second part, so not prepared to have an intelligent opinion.

-------------------------

memetics | 2022-01-28 07:59:05 UTC | #7

8 year staker here, extremely dissatisfied with this proposal

How can he be proposing this for ALL with a straight face 

-30% for what -_-

-------------------------

Roman | 2022-01-28 08:29:13 UTC | #8

The idea is to depressurize people to sell because of their tax pressure, but what about the people who have not such a tax pressure because their tax jurisdiction don’t incentivize them to sell ? 

This is why I was asking if we could conjugate the force of both models, letting the choice to people. If the majority of stakers have a tax pressure, the minority having not this tax won’t be a threaten to the whole network if they can continue to merge maturity and sell their ICP as they always did.

The democracy will decide, but we may have to be prepared to lose the interest of people who don’t have this tax pressure.

-------------------------

ajismyid | 2022-01-28 08:35:38 UTC | #9

My question, if according to Dom's Proposal Feature no.2 ("Maturity Is Staked, Not Merged"): 
Quote:" the maturity will increase the voting power of the neuron pro rata, but the staking will not result in new ICP tokens being minted."

Since it is not resulting any ICPs to be produced, under current US tax law, are you still in the position that Taxes still force you to sell ?

-------------------------

ajismyid | 2022-01-28 09:06:10 UTC | #10

Feature №1: Modulation by Price Trend

I prefer modulation by supply/consumption ratio rather than by price trend.
Modulation by price trend is like fed raise/lower rates based on stock market price, rather than based on fundamental real economy

-------------------------

Comfortable_Reply_56 | 2022-01-28 09:14:55 UTC | #11

[quote="diegop, post:4, topic:10530"]
my biggest drag on staking is taxes (as it decreases ability to compound, forces constant selling, and accumulated tax bill even when I do nothing),
[/quote]

Given the current situation leads to effective forced selling for some this is an indirect concern all holders. Whatever is taxed is not reinvested, causing a net selling pressure. 

So I agree there's a compelling reason to adress this issue. 

However, the proposal is not a net gain for everyone if it turns people away from investing (decreasing demand). 

I agree with this:

[quote="tsetse, post:5, topic:10530"]
Why leave stakers vulnerable to a market crash occurring *after* they have made their decision? Surely, a formula could be worked out based on the previous week’s price gain / fall, so investors can trust firm calculations rather than intuitions about where the market is heading?
[/quote]

and 

[quote="tsetse, post:5, topic:10530"]
Second, the potential maximum penalty of 30% is ridiculously high.
[/quote]

And if I understand the proposal correctly it effectively erases compounding effects. But maybe that's a misunderstanding. Dom writes:  "Once staked inside, the maturity will increase the voting power of the neuron pro rata, but the staking will not result in new ICP tokens being minted." Are rewards also increased along with voting power (meaning maturity is earned on existing maturity)? If not, that is also an issue, in my view.

-------------------------

mparikh | 2022-01-28 09:30:03 UTC | #12

If anyone is confident about this being in the best interest of ALL stakeholders, let me suggest the following litmus test as a part of ANY proposal.

All neuron holders of ANY years of locking will have their locks unlocked PRIOR TO this new scheme of staking. The neuron holders can then decide whether or not to participate in this new scheme.

-------------------------

tlbalog | 2022-01-28 09:31:46 UTC | #13

Can anyone share a link to this proposal?

-------------------------

Roman | 2022-01-28 10:55:25 UTC | #14

@mparikh I always, our spirits are connected. I had the same idea this night.

-------------------------

ajismyid | 2022-01-28 09:45:27 UTC | #15

https://medium.com/dfinity/proposal-to-improve-icp-governance-staking-re-tax-and-tokenomics-df09903a2e0b

-------------------------

ajismyid | 2022-01-28 09:52:10 UTC | #17

Quote: "And if I understand the proposal correctly it effectively erases compounding effects"

My understanding, if you do not want lose compounding effect, you have to disburse the maturity to generate ICP. After that increase stake manually.
The Second feature of the proposal only impacting US holders, for those who do not have this tax rules in their country, may not have effect, except a bit more hassles to compound the reward.

-------------------------

skilesare | 2022-01-28 10:26:43 UTC | #18

First blush:

As a user it seems more complicated. I can’t explain this to my wife’s grandmother.

As a USA tax payer I’m dubious that they’ll take Doms word for it, but I love the thought and attention to detail. It will probably end up depending on who is in the seat of the IRS chair in the future.

From and ICDevs perspective we’ll take your donations, reduce your tax burden, and turbo charge the IC ecosystem in any way we can.

From an investor standpoint, people like to invest in things that are modelable and this seems less modelable. I’m not sure we should cater to taxes at the cost of investability.

I know I don’t like paying taxes!

-------------------------

skilesare | 2022-01-28 10:31:55 UTC | #19

[quote="llbrunoll, post:2, topic:10530"]
There will be possible -30% cuts in your minted ICP, based on market trends
[/quote]

It would seem to me that reducing this penalty for well aged neurons would be ideal and maintain the incentives to stake for 8 years.

-------------------------

Comfortable_Reply_56 | 2022-01-28 11:34:57 UTC | #20

[quote="ajismyid, post:17, topic:10530"]
My understanding, if you do not want lose compounding effect, you have to disburse the maturity to generate ICP. After that increase stake manually.
The Second feature of the proposal only impacting US holders, for those who do not have this tax rules in their country, may not have effect, except a bit more hassles to compound the reward.
[/quote]

Alright. Still being able to compound is positive. Extra hassle obviously is not, and more importantly: 
the lottery effect you'd get every time you disburse to compound is bothersome - especially considering the downside is larger (-30%) than the upside (+5%). Unless you're amazingly able to consistently foresee market trends you'd lose out over time, while compounding.

-------------------------

aaa10247 | 2022-01-28 16:23:17 UTC | #21

[quote="tsetse, post:5, topic:10530"]
To this end, my question is, does it matter precisely how uncertain the rewards related to maturity are? Could the reward / penalty be, say, 1% and still serve the same tax purpose? That might be a tolerable threshold for stakers, especially if it is calculated at the moment of hitting the disburse button.
[/quote]

My thoughts on each of these three features:


**Feature 1: modulating by price trend (price lottery)** 

Confirmation is needed whether both of these new mechanisms are required to not have to pay taxes upfront (both the new maturity system and also the disbursal lottery). Or whether they can be taken individually and still achieve goal of not paying taxes upfront. 

My guess is the uncertainty of the icp disbursal amount depending on market trend after disbursal starts (ie price trend lottery) is required to make case to tax authorities that ICP from merging should not be considered income, thereby requiring the uncertainty of price trend after disbursal to lock in ICP amount. 

If disbursal lottery is not necessary to achieve the goal of avoiding upfront taxation, and the new merge system is sufficient on it's own, then the price trend lottery mechanic is being used solely as a mechanism to stabilize price. Which should perhaps be considered as a separate proposal and not conflated with goal of not paying taxes upfront. 

Does this range of +5 %to -30% need to be so big in order to get this benefit of uncertainty?

**Feature 2 maturity is staked not merged** 

If i were to get a +5% bonus by disbursing in an uptrend would that be preferable to just holding and accumulating my staked maturity? If that's the case, this proposal might have unintended effect of causing more disbursal. Especially if i am in a jurisdiction who isn't taxed on cap gains. 

**Feature no. 3 maturity is disbursed not spawned** 

Why not change the disbursal duration to a few minutes, to avoid the opportunity for trend change to risk a difference in disbursal lottery? 

Does making the price coefficient more or less difficult to predict and time result in greater or lesser chance of the tax authorities viewing the ICP taxable upfront? 

Is the disbursal delay still 7 days? Because the market trend can change a lot in seven days, from the time of starting to disburse to eventually locking in the disbursal bonus/penalty. 

Would the formula used for the price trend indicator prevent this type of fluctuations in the bonus amount? To create more certainty in the bonus amount at the time the disbursal starts?

Would potentially create a lot of uncertainty even if you started the disbursal process during an uptrend. Would like clarification on how much this could potentially fluctuate if he disbursal started during an uptrend but then the market changed rapidly and user ended up getting penalized.

**A few questions that arise:** 

How easy would it be to predict or manipulate this "price trend coefficient" in order to achieve maximum disbursal bonus/penalty? Would it be preferable to have a longer time frame coefficient timeframe in order to make it easier/more difficult to predict? 

Is the disbursal delay still seven days to disburse staked maturity? Would it be preferable to increase/decrease this? 

Can the staked maturity be disbursed on it's own without needing to disburse the entire neuron? 

Can compounding effects be achieved in this new system? Would compounding require constant disbursal (with associated delay and price lottery risk), conversion to ICP and then re adding the newly minted ICP to neuron? Or could compounding be achieved simply by staking the maturity instead of merging the maturity. 

For people with 50 neurons it becomes even more of a time investment to constantly stake, disburse, and then add ICP back into original neuron for fifty neurons. If that's what is required to benefit from compounding. I wonder if an autostake maturity feature could be developed alongside this.

-------------------------

llbrunoll | 2022-01-28 18:48:46 UTC | #23

Yes. Let's make sure this will be part of the final proposal!  (I am serious about that). I suggest we include this simple CHOICE, 
for everyone, before the new scheme is implemented. 

(and I fairly believe it will be implemented... because it is whale-driven. It is. Maybe it helps out some non/mid-whales in certain conditions... but IMO, it is whale-driven)

-------------------------

llbrunoll | 2022-01-28 18:45:33 UTC | #24

I think there will be no change to the formula to lead to "less uncertainty" during the minting process. 

Because, the entire purpose of this magic, is to bring UNCERTAINTY to the final minting process, believing that this uncertainty will be enough to actively TRICK tax authorities 

Meaning: The investors NEED the uncertainty to make the entire tax-trick argument work. So, now investors can pledge "Well, this is not income till it is minted, because I (investor) don't know how much will be minted --- it can be +5% down to -30% ICPs ! "

So, the uncertainty is part of the tax-trick. The formula will not change! If it changes, it is not going to be in favor of bringing certainty to the minting process. Do you see? This is all about the tax-trick. 

We put this tax-trick to work, fine. But we lose something (a lot IMHO).

-------------------------

llbrunoll | 2022-01-28 18:50:34 UTC | #25

[Link to the proposal: Medium post.](https://forum.dfinity.org/t/dominic-s-proposal-to-improve-icp-governance-staking-re-tax-and-tokenomics/10530/18)

-------------------------

aaa10247 | 2022-01-28 19:42:44 UTC | #26

The investors need the uncertainty, question is "how much uncertainty" will satisfy requirement? 

In my opinion, it's unclear and unconfirmed how the coefficient will be calculated to determine the +5/-30. How sensitive it will be to price movements. 

Also unclear how much "uncertainty" is needed to avoid upfront taxation. 

Also unclear how long the duration of the waiting period will be to disburse the staked maturity into ICP, currently it's seven days. Not sure if that would change.

Also unclear whether the change to stake maturity instead of merge maturity and mint ICP, would satisfy the uncertainty requirement enough to not require to also have the +5/-30 mechanism.

-------------------------

Arthur | 2022-01-28 20:00:37 UTC | #27

I think there is some sound analysis above and Dom's post, while long was pretty coherent and thorough.  

From speaking to investors who already find the staking and token economics difficult to understand I think the price modulation feature is going to have a negative effect on investor confidence. Investors already have issues understanding ICP economics. This is part of the reason we don't see capital entering the system. Making ICP harder still to understand will exacerbate this problem. 

**Feature №2: Maturity Is Staked, Not Merged** appears to clearly solve the problem at hand for those who want to merge currently. At least in New Zealand, this would result in no tax liability. Big tick.
That said, at least in New Zealand, to avoid tax you would have to set your maturity to "Stake" *before* you received it as the opportunity to realise it would constitute a potentially taxable event, and the choice to "Stake" it, a transaction.

**Feature №3: Maturity Is Disbursed, Not Spawned** definitely would be appreciated by NNS users. Right now it's a two-stage process and feels unnecessarily complicated. This would have no impact on tax liability in New Zealand. It still looks just like a dividend.

At least in NZ, It needs to be clear that you are not in a position to transact or benefit from ownership of an asset. There are lots of words and legalese that can be applied but at the end of the day, you just need to have nothing in hand. 

Why not, instead of having some complicated way to show that the Neuron holder isn't actually in control of their neuron maturity (which is my understanding of  **Feature №1: Modulation by Price Trend**), just make maturity not directly transferable into ICP. Rather, make it represent a right to perform some creative act. For example, Do some proof of work. 

This would make neuron maturity untaxable when accrued, as it would not represent receipt of an asset. However, you could "mine down" your maturity, resulting in an event clearly taxed the same as BTC mining. If you want to hold onto your maturity, it's an unexercised right. Not an extant asset.

It would be trivial for a community entity to make mining seamless, and even less frictive than the current "spawn->disburse" approach. Investors would roll their eyes initially but it is something they, and tax authorities will understand.

-------------------------

llbrunoll | 2022-01-29 03:21:00 UTC | #28

Thinking about possible outcomes of the DW tokenomics proposal. 

i) current tokenomics put pressure on large ICP holders, forcing them to constantly sell a fraction of their staking rewards to fill tax obligations. 

ii) the new tokenomics proposal will help large ICP stakers to keep their staked ICP in form of voting-power while tricking tax obligations via minting-uncertainty (that is to 'couple the outcome of minting' to a 'market trend coefficient of +5 to -30%)

 I guess most of us were first caught by the 'price effect' thought that could come out of ii)

But, what about Decentralization? 

Let's keep in mind: We are talking about web3. 

and about The ICP as the backbone of web3. 

From a DECENTRALIZATION perspective:

Current tokenomics (i): will keep motivating large ICP holders to sell a fraction of their stake gains, to fill tax obligations. Meaning: current tokenomics INCENTIVIZE Decentralization. (and that is great!)

The new proposal (ii): will clearly motivate large ICP stakers to keep their stake rewards untouched, and cumulating into voting power. Meaning: the new tokenomics will INCENTIVIZE Centralization. 

What do we want from ICP as the leading web3 platform? 

Do we want to back large stakers to keep their voting power, and delay (potentially sacrifice) decentralization? 

Or

Do we want to reach and motivate web3 Decentralization?

-------------------------

rbolog | 2022-01-29 10:19:23 UTC | #29

Hello,
When I read this proposal, I wondered if Mr. X from a country where no prominent member of dFinity or its foundation resides would have a chance with his proposal.
Is governance going to be adapted every time a country adjusts its taxation?
I'm not sure, and that's a kind of inequality. Beyond the content why do we have to adjust/penalize a system for a few US states?

-------------------------

plsak | 2022-01-29 17:10:23 UTC | #30

Hi, we already had a shorter discussion about this under @dominicwilliams tweet, I basically agree with the expressed worries but also recognised some advantages:
[Comment 1](https://twitter.com/plsak/status/1486970745599242244?s=21)
[Comment 2](https://twitter.com/plsak/status/1486972333868953600?s=21)

**In order to solve different expectations and needs of stakers from different regions/environments, what about to make the choice optional per neuron?**

I mean, under each neuron (WEB GUI) could be a **check box to use `advanced` rewards processing, which, if checked, would change the behaviour as is described in the proposal, otherwise things would stay as are now** :)
* in case that the change should be **permanent** it could be **button similar to `Join Community Fund`**...

Also thinking, as there might be **unlimited number of similar neuron options** (as anyone can propose any change), it would be good to **put them into some menu**, like `Neuron Options` or `Advanced`, as orientation in the GUI is becoming quite difficult and prone to mistakes, mainly for new users.

-------------------------

Roman | 2022-01-29 16:29:55 UTC | #31

Doable or not, I like the idea @plsak.

-------------------------

jonit | 2022-01-29 16:46:47 UTC | #32

this is a great idea.

-------------------------

kmanxhuka | 2022-01-29 22:03:25 UTC | #33

If this was achievable it would've been a cool thing. The option would be activated and it could be an irreversible decision.

-------------------------

dfisher | 2022-01-30 01:51:00 UTC | #34

The purpose of the proposal set forth by Dominic has two goals:

1.	Adjust reward mechanism to lead to favorable tax outcome 
2.	Adjust reward mechanism to lead to increased price stability, which in turn is good for the network

Dom presents some really thoughtful ideas on both fronts, yet I fear that implementing his proposal would actually create the precise opposite of his intended outcomes. Dealing with both in order: 

1.	Adjust reward mechanism to lead to favorable tax outcome 

The more I think about this I believe it is a red herring, i.e. unresolvable and likely untrue. We could argue until we are blue in the face about how the IRS *should* treat staking but the fact remains that the IRS wants to tax staking in the here and now. That’s the advice I have been given by professional CPAs not by my read of the tax code. There appears to be a legitimate debate about whether taxes should be realized during the accumulation of maturity or during the minting of new ICP. That said, no CPA is going to defend that by creating obfuscations around the timing of minting ICP the IRS will decide to throw up their hands and say, oh well lets just tax it as income upon sales. The more likely outcome will be a painful tax situation for folks who refuse to pay in staking income tax with an obscure argument and have to pay a ton of back taxes. But in any case, even if I am wrong about the IRS, the far more important and interesting question is Dom’s second argument, which could be evaluated totally independently of the first -> 

2.	Adjust the reward mechanism through dynamic staking rewards which will in turn incentivize stakers to stabilize the price

Here Dom is attempting to kill two birds with one stone. Create a more favorable tax outcome, while also create a more favorable dynamic reward mechanism that leads to price stability. Here I also disagree strongly. 

What we desperately want is for people to stake long term and compound their maturity without regard for the price, consistently and over time for as long as possible – i.e. 8 years. I have met some IC folks who just merge maturity once a week – its part of their routine which they do almost automatically. 

What we do not want is price obsessed stakers who anxiously decide, should I stake, should I disburse, has the price moved too much, too little etc? The focus on price will become truly unbearable and turn long term investors into short term traders. We want to average joe to invest. But the average joe has a job to go to. They can’t be analyzing price trends and deciding based on that whether to stake or disburse. 

We also do not want to add additional complexity to add to the already high level of complexity in the NNS. That would act as a barrier to folks who want to invest, stake, and become a part of the eco-system. Folks also like some level of certainty and take comfort in the % APY that they can get through staking (per the comments above). 

So in sum, I believe that while Dom intends to reduce taxes, and increase price stability, I fear that this proposal would lead to the exact opposite outcome. Increased taxes and penalties and more price instability.

-------------------------

Roman | 2022-01-30 11:31:50 UTC | #35

I think they this is a perfect summary of the situation. 

And more particularly, the following point underlines the main problem in my opinion : 

[quote="dfisher, post:34, topic:10530"]
What we do not want is price obsessed stakers who anxiously decide, should I stake, should I disburse, has the price moved too much, too little etc? The focus on price will become truly unbearable and turn long term investors into short term traders. We want to average joe to invest. But the average joe has a job to go to. They can’t be analyzing price trends and deciding based on that whether to stake or disburse.
[/quote]

Indeed, I think this Dominic’s sentence below is epistemologically and then ethically problematic : « Since these calculations will be made after the delay that occurs when disbursal is triggered, the neuron owner will be incentivized to make intuitive judgments about the markets and the timing of their sales ». 

Let us forget the pure interest for ICP growth : A lot of stakers are stakers because they know themselves as non traders. What it is called here « intuitive judgements » is trend analysis that very few people are capable of. We are not all traders. A lot of us are long term stakers precisely because they know their own limited capabilities and because they wanted to avoid this stress. But as soon as this proposal would be adopted, everybody would have to improvise himself as trend analyser ? It is impossible. Even the best experts warn people, saying « be very careful, it takes years and decades to make less errors, don’t jam with trading ». 
So « intuitive jugements » means here either jugements founded on years of trading experience or gambling judgement.

A lot of warnings are constantly adressed to people by trend experts and governments to sensitize them to the fact that the trading is not a trivial activity. We are warned to be very careful, to not « jam » with trading without skills and that we should stay away from it if we are not shaped to do trading. But this proposal and more particularly this sentence is asking people to not pay attention anymore to these warnings and to overrate their knowledge and skills or to gamble. It is like to say to people : « you have been told you are not traders ? Guess what, you are ! It is for everybody », but indeed they will be gamblers thinking them as enlightened traders, worst case scenario, be cause It is better to know we are gambling when we are, and not we are acting scientifically. It is by thinking themselves as lucky or controlling, then as not gambling that the gamblers lose everything. Let us not forget that some people have addictions, or have a disposition to develop one. People should not be forced to choose between being gamblers or traders. People should not even be incentivized to trade a way or in another, and Dfinity should not begin starting to think ICP through its price. @dominicwilliams has always been saying « we don’t care the price, we only focus on the tech ». But suddenly we think ICP through the price. We should not, plus it is so early. Why don’t we just concentrate on organic growth, **6k ICP have been burnt in only 24hours yersteday**. The more ICP (protocol) will be adopted, the more ICP (token) will be burnt. Dfinity or us should not set artificial ways to control the price and we should not think about its price at all. Its high and stable price should be a consequence, not a motivation. It will mechanically grow once more adoption and liberated all the seeds’ ICP. People have to be able to sell their ICP and anytime, but they should not be accompanied by Dfinity or ICP in this side of ICP economy. ICP’s fiat value is not a Dfinity matter. Period.

We are starting to think more in fiat than in ICP with this measure and I think it is bad for the ICP. We should exclusively think in terms of ICP and cycles, furthermore the first year. For me, the parallel price thought is an admission of failure, and we should not. I trust the ICP. I just don’t consider the price, or at least not before years. Why don’t we just trust the adoption will be enough and just spend the whole time to promote the adoption rather than thinking about stabilizing price. 

By this measure, we are presupposing here that people will sell their ICP, then we try to frame and rythm this, but we should not presuppose they will sell. Our target should be to work to make people have reasons to save their ICP, make them keep it, NOT make them wait the good time to sell.

-------------------------

NickM | 2022-01-30 12:20:43 UTC | #36

DLDR: Might a reasonable first step towards tax efficiency be to configure payouts / rewards to occur once a week instead of every day, thereby reducing taxable event recording per year from 365 entries to 52?

IMO the KEY ISSUE relating to staking rewards is the frequency of payouts as highlighted by Diego 

[quote="diegop, post:4, topic:10530"]
Due to current US tax laws, I am forced to spawn and sell my NNS rewards every few days.
[/quote]

This is a win / win because it benefits the most tax vulnerable without punishing the tax free. (The End of Year difference between compounding daily payouts and weekly payouts of APR 20% on $100,000 capital is about $40. If one has 100k in ICP and is worried about $40... GO HOME! This is a useful tool  https://www.thecalculatorsite.com/finance/calculators/compoundinterestcalculator.php )

As for the whole business about penalising peeps who sell in a falling market by up to 30%... really? I mean, let's be brutally frank... for those who have an income of $50,000 + per year there is some choice for putting off / delaying income for tax reasons, but if we are talking about truly global adoption we MUST NOT punish people for whom a dollar a day is ESSENTIAL INCOME. 

And what about businesses/developers looking to model cash flow for delivering services via the InternetComputer? Imagine this discussion, "Shall we will keep 5% of all revenue in ICP to stake, participate in governance decisions and earn rewards as part of our cash flow model?", "How much will we earn each year?" "Errr... IDK?"  

I am all up for tax efficiencies and robust tokenomics, but they must be simple, not complex.

Can we please focus on improving the image of ICP across the broader crypto and non-crypto communities in order to drive adoption.

::EDIT::
Final thought: We are just beginning to see the number of ICPs burnt through application use increase... kudos to all OG IC Devs! As I see it, this is a core element of IC tokenomics. Shouldn't we let this run for a bit and observe the impact on value before introducing additional mechanisms?

-------------------------

Roman | 2022-01-30 12:42:27 UTC | #37

[quote="NickM, post:36, topic:10530"]
Final thought: We are just beginning to see the number of ICPs burnt through application use increase… kudos to all OG IC Devs! As I see it, this is a core element of IC tokenomics. Shouldn’t we let this run for a bit and observe the impact on value before introducing additional mechanisms?
[/quote]

More than **6000 ICP burnt in just 24 hours the 28th January, so almost 17% of the total burnt since the launching**. It is crazy. I totally agree. We just need patience and to be more confident here.

We had told to @wpb, @Kyle_Langham and @ayjayem that more data were needed at least during six months more before any tokenomics changing, but I see Dominic's proposal a much more massively changing than these fellows' proposal meant to incentivize the staking. I think that we must incentivize the staking rather than the trading skills.

-------------------------

radudaniel | 2022-01-30 14:35:10 UTC | #38

As it stands now I do not know how to asses this post / statement. 
1. As this is a change to the tokenomics of the network I am interested what is the basic assumption, and how does that benefit the network. It is vaguely stated as “diminishing the selling pressure” by how much? for how long? how does IC benefit from this?
2. To answer these some simulations should be made.
3. Once simulations are made gather feedback. 
4. After feedback probably some modifications. 
5. After modifications some tests. Real life rarely works as indicated by simulations. 
6. Once tests are concluded GRADUAL implementation of something that proves better for the network. 

Ultimately the decision I asses is how does this benefit the network. Not the price movement, not the tokenomics per se, not the tax implications. 

I think we can have a practical discussion after we can evaluate some scenarios where we can see how the network benefits from this, and asses the pros and cons.

-------------------------

mparikh | 2022-01-30 17:39:58 UTC | #39

Why do we need to "diminishing the selling pressure" ?
 
The distribution scheme was known MUCH BEFORE genesis. It was bound to create selling pressure when more significantly tokens are created at certain points in time ( as currently). 

We could just stop minting tokens to be distributed to neurons such as 4009 etc. That will surely stop the selling pressure.

-------------------------

tsetse | 2022-01-30 17:46:12 UTC | #40

I think it is also worthwhile asking in this regard if Dominic Williams has something like a fiduciary responsibility to ICP stakeholders, and what exactly that involves. He has helmed an ambitious project for years and has obviously been a good enough leader to produce some astonishing results. However, his Twitter personality has done the IC no favours at a time in its development when marketing is almost as important as tech. There is no shortage of technically brilliant products and services that failed for lack of astute marketing.
I think a proposal of the present kind can make for a medium post to be discussed on this forum and on sub-reddits filled with truly interested people. But should it be put out on Twitter, to a wide audience that has no understanding of exactly how much power Williams holds to push through the ideas, some of them distinctly half-baked, contained in the proposal?
One of the persons charged with communicating Dfinity's vision to the public at large, who is doing a very good job of it, states on this thread that he hadn't even heard of this proposal before it was publicised on Twitter. Should there not be a vetting process, with internal debates before ill-thought through ideas are thrown out for everyone to read? Perhaps it is time Dfinity gets its communications strategy in order and ensures everyone within the Foundation sticks to the script, no matter how lofty their positions within the hierarchy.

-------------------------

mparikh | 2022-01-30 18:16:32 UTC | #41

The current overall daily average reward is 1.6 ICP. In order for someone to achieve that average, one would need to have at least 2500 ICP(roughly) locked up for eight years. For illustration, that 2500 ICP even at $20 today = $50,000. 

If you have much more than the average locked up( say 10000 ICP) yes, your reward will be much more than the average. And yes, depending on where you live, taxes are inevitable. So you will need to spawn your maturity to pay taxes. 

If , on the other hand, you have much less than the average locked up ( say 250 ICP instead of 2500 ICP), your daily average reward is considerably less than the overall all daily average. You will still have taxes (assuming same locality )but significantly less than someone who has 10000 ICP locked up.

Edit: and yes, i understand that the proposal is about trying to get to tax avoidance. However, as others have pointed, all of the arguments (i.e. "the mouth of a mine" ) needs to be clearly seen through the lenses of a tax advisor or financial advisor. I am neither of them.

A proposal of this magnitude affecting literally billions of dollars of investment should go through a thorough analysis by reputable financial company.

-------------------------

talkingant | 2022-01-30 22:23:06 UTC | #42

What if we use something similar to Curve DAO tokenomics?

For example:

The protocol mints ICP rewards into a rewards pool for each motion. 
Neurons that voted on that motion can claim their rewards in proportion to voting power.
Income tax is realized when the user claims (maybe, not a tax expert).

If that doesn't work, then I think we should try to figure out a way to convert the NNS to a buy-and-burn model, similar to MakerDAO. But it's complicated due to the NNS's conditional rewards and lockups. Maybe there is a way to have a voting power token where neurons that dont vote get slashed, but the protocol increases the value of the tokens with inflation rewards via a buy-and-burn auction.

-------------------------

dfisher | 2022-01-30 23:53:03 UTC | #43

I've been thinking a bit about Dom's **Feature №2: Maturity Is Staked, Not Merged** and its reminding me of the old saying - pigs get fat but hogs get slaughtered. 

In my opinion, taking the position that accumulated maturity is not a taxable event but merge and spawn events are a taxable event is acceptable but on the aggressive side. One can argue that since ICP is not minted and there is a week delay to get your tokens the taxable event has not yet happened. All that said, accumulated maturity can be realized into liquid ICP within a week so the IRS may challenge that position. 

Taking the further position that not only is accumulated maturity not taxable but over and above that one can stake accumulated maturity into a new unit that generates maturity but is also not taxable feels doubly aggressive. Its aggressive on top of aggressive.

Its just asking for a lot. Maybe we should just be happy with the position that accumulated maturity is not taxable until the spawn / merge event? As they say, pigs get fat but hogs get slaughtered.

-------------------------

doo | 2022-01-31 03:40:20 UTC | #45

Is it possible to borrow ICP through mortgage neurons, so that the current economics will not change?

-------------------------

zlk2000 | 2022-01-31 16:51:21 UTC | #46

I did not stake in order to create a tax shelter. I staked to be part of a community that delivers on the promise of what ICP and Dominic saw originally.

A mantra from Six Sigma "Focus on the process and the results will take care of themselves." In other words, quit worrying about taxes and non-value added items that don't solve real Web 2.0 problems.

This proposal....
does nothing for building out the ICP ecosystem.
does not convert AWS and Azure developers to ICP.
adds complexity that will not entice investors.
will not solve real Web 2.0 problems.
will not capitalize and churn out real-value of what ICP can do to transform Web 3.0
does not entice end users

I will say feature 2 is the only good thing...it allows for automatic merging saving stakers time from going into the NNS.

-------------------------

jzxchiang | 2022-01-31 22:33:02 UTC | #47

I'm probably in the minority, but I found Dom's proposal thoughtful and even borderline convincing. There's actually quite a bit of nuance here. I think some of the comments here straw man his argument.

First of all, the -30% to 5% ICP modulation only applies if you are cashing out (i.e. disbursbing or spawning) your maturity. For stakers who regularly merge their neuron maturities, this doesn't affect that.

Second, the fundamental problem being solved can best be described with an example:

> [In] the USA, those extracting the oil only pay income tax on the receipts of their sales, rather than at the moment of extraction, since doing so would depend on highly speculative measures of fair market value.

To take it further...

When a programmer writes code, they may be producing value, but they aren't taxed on it until they sell their code (or SaaS).

When a baker bakes a bread, they may be producing value, but they aren't taxed on it until they sell their bread.

The reason for that, at least according to Dom, is that it wouldn't be fair to tax something that doesn't have a "fair market value" yet. That's why you wait until you sell the bread to tax it (where the FMV is the price of the bread sold).

However, currently maturity can be argued to have a FMV, since you can calculate how much ICP a certain amount of maturity is worth, and ICP has a FMV since it's publicly tradable. (Actually, Dom argues that the possibility of arbitrary NNS network updates in the future renders maturity too unstable for it to have a FMV, under the [Commissioner v. Glenshaw Glass](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commissioner_v._Glenshaw_Glass_Co.) standard.)

This proposal fixes that by removing the certainty with which you can mathematically convert maturity to ICP using a fluctuating "exchange price" that's modulated by ICP price movements. The -30% to 5% modulation is just one way to introduce uncertainty. It's not the only way to do it. You can agree with the ultimate goal without agreeing with the method to get there.

-----

Overall, I'm still undecided but I like the out-of-the-box thinking here. After all, the NNS is a self-updating entity and not an immutable contract, so if there are improvements to be made, we should consider them.

FYI, yes, most of us are not tax attorneys, but no tax attorney in the world (or the IRS for that matter) can give any definitive answer on this topic. So I think it's totally valid for us to make arguments and debate them. This is the frontier, after all.

-------------------------

rubenhorne | 2022-01-31 22:56:19 UTC | #48

Supply and demand for ICP is complicated and largely out of direct network control. For that reason, I think feature 1 of the proposal would just hurt neuron holders when the market is down for a long time, rather than helping the network. Still undecided on features 2 and 3.

-------------------------

tsetse | 2022-02-03 04:49:14 UTC | #49

This might render the entire debate moot. 
https://blockworks.co/sources-in-win-for-crypto-stakers-irs-says-untraded-tokens-are-tax-free/
Sadly, it means IC will remain highly centralised, with 8-year whales continuing to hoover up staking rewards.

-------------------------

NickM | 2022-02-03 08:54:35 UTC | #50

Great find and thanks for sharing. This is great news and a useful reminder that the outside world is constantly changing.

-------------------------

Roman | 2022-02-03 09:20:39 UTC | #51

Look forward to hearing @dominicwilliams about this, but it looks like feature 2 and 3 are now irrelevant.

-------------------------

Zane | 2022-02-03 12:48:08 UTC | #52

That wouldn't have been solved by that proposal,  we need badlands, people parties and quadratic voting asap to improve decentralization.

-------------------------

llbrunoll | 2022-02-03 14:52:54 UTC | #53

[quote="aaa10247, post:21, topic:10530"]
Does this range of +5 %to -30% need to be so big in order to get this benefit of uncertainty?
[/quote]

This range is strange. There is no balance. Those numbers seem totally arbitrary to me. 

I believe this proposal will move forward (it is backed by Dnifity, therefore it is already backed by huge whale-vote-power). 

So, let's try to -at least- question those numbers.

Why not a price modulation leading to a mint uncertainty of +10% to -10% ?    There is a balance. (nobody will be hit by an unexpected (but possible) -30% penalty .) 

Still, this modulation is 100% experimental. So, why not start the modulation with a +5% to -5% ?

Then, we see how it goes. After we collect some data and probe its impact, we could move on, and voto to adjust the bonus/penalty to new levels.  (+10% to -10% ... or +15% to -15%)

-------------------------

Roman | 2022-02-03 15:44:13 UTC | #54

I think we should just change nothing. 
1 - There will not be tax pressure anymore
2 - The ICP burning is higher and higher
3 - BTC is being integrated. 

So this is not the moment to play sorcerer’s apprentice. Let us just touch nothing, wait and see. There is no need. On the contrary :  there is need of doing nothing right now.

-------------------------

llbrunoll | 2022-02-03 17:35:54 UTC | #55

and keep playing to burn cycles:

https://tpku2-kiaaa-aaaai-abala-cai.raw.ic0.app/

-------------------------

dfisher | 2022-02-03 19:56:56 UTC | #56

Super happy that I was completely wrong about the IRS. Also I wonder if Dom sees need to implement his proposal now? Probably not although it did have a non-tax angle too

-------------------------

mparikh | 2022-02-04 00:11:58 UTC | #57

NOT TAX ADVICE NOR FINANCIAL ADVICE. I AM NOT A TAX ADVISOR NOR A FINANCIAL ADVISOR.

My impression was this was an offer to repay ; absent a directive. I think that only an official directive could really settle it(which is why the repay was rejected...to ensure that IRS comes back with an official directive or the courts do the ruling).

-------------------------

ajismyid | 2022-02-04 01:01:29 UTC | #58

Although ICP burning is higher and higher, the spread ratio between ICP reward minting rate is still very huge compare to ICP burn rate. At current state, around 3-4 M ICP minted / month compare to 4-6 K ICP burned / month. While the minting rate is known, predicted and deterministic, it is not the case for ICP/cycle burn. ICP burn is dynamic, will fluctuate based on demand of market condition.

There is argument that the coming DeFi, GameFi, SocialFi will burn cycle aggresively, but what if the market reaction & adoption take more time and not as aggresively as we hope for ? 

IMHO, The ICP reward minting rate (supply side) should match with the state of ICP burn rate that is dynamic. ICP minting rate should adjust automatically to the market condition. If the demand slowdown, should ICP reward minting rate too, and vice versa.

If there should be a change in the ICP tokenomics, I hope community can consider this mechanic.

-------------------------

tsetse | 2022-02-04 03:30:38 UTC | #59

The proposal tried to find a way for US-based whales (and a few non-whales) to keep the ICP earned through staking. It would have ensured the blockchain stayed heavily centralized. If the IRS decision hardens into official policy, it will serve the same purpose. Decentralization would have gained force had tax compulsions forced whales to sell some ICP.

-------------------------

Roman | 2022-02-04 12:04:46 UTC | #60

[quote="ajismyid, post:58, topic:10530"]
At current state, around 3-4 M ICP minted / month compare to 4-6 K ICP burned / month.
[/quote]

We have almost burnt 40k ICP in 15 days lastly. And it is just the beginning. So, as I was saying : let us reach the cruising speed, let us have more complete data before any changing. After BTC and ETH integration, the number of burnt ICP will explode. It was anticipated that a lot of more ICP would be minted than burnt at the beginning. Furthermore it could have been worst in a hype scenario, because at the beginning, a lot of stake, so a lot of mint, but the dapp are not yet developed, so few icp had to be burnt. Things are just normal here. Again, let us just trust the thing. We can't begin with the end. In French, we say : "on ne peut pas aller plus vite que la musique" : "one can"t go faster than the music goes".

-------------------------

Zane | 2022-02-04 17:08:09 UTC | #61

Not much would have changed in my opinion, whales have already accumulated hundreds of thousands if not millions of ICPs, even without staking rewards they hold a majority of voting power, the only way to increase decentralization in my opinion are people parties and some form of quadratic voting for KYCed neurons, so if a few whales vote on a bad proposal the community can outvote them even tho it holds less tokens.

-------------------------

jwiegley | 2022-02-04 19:36:47 UTC | #62

Please note that the +5 and -30 numbers have not been finalized. Other bounds are actively being discussed. In fact, +/- 5 is the current front-runner.

-------------------------

llbrunoll | 2022-02-04 20:40:27 UTC | #63

Great to hear that! Those numbers need to be balanced. 

Still, if you plan to run this new "tokenomic Experiment" , please, think about starting with more acceptable bonus/penalty coef. +/-3%. So, there will be a time to collect data, and measure (lets measure!)  if the price modulation attempt is beneficial (or not).

If "beneficial" turns to be the case, then we could move on and be more aggressive, reaching -/+5% levels.

-------------------------

Roman | 2022-02-05 13:33:59 UTC | #64

But John, have you seen the increasing of ICP burning ? It is becoming explosive, whereas we are at the early beginning. Do you think really necessary to modify tokenomics ? Why would not we trust your initial tokenomics for a while ? Plus, modify the tokenomics with a bonus/malus of 3 or 5% will add very little economics changing, but a lot of more complexity for potential newcomers. Does it worth it ?

In my opinion, it is urgent to not change anything, as we say in French.

-------------------------

jonit | 2022-02-05 14:38:31 UTC | #65

I have to agree, lets give everything a bit more time to mature

-------------------------

ildefons | 2022-02-05 14:52:30 UTC | #66

Why not +/-K , K>10%? The bigger is K, the bigger is the tax penalty in a down trend and the bigger is the incentive to wait until the network is growing consistently. According to this rationale, we could start with a very large key and steadily relax it until we reach K=0 in few years when all pre-genesis neurons are unlocked, the key developments are deployed and the network is in a healthy constant positive evolution.

-------------------------

Roman | 2022-02-05 15:13:59 UTC | #67

It would be suicide IMHO. None other tokenomics make this kind of tokenomics trick, I have not sees any similar tokenomics elsewhere. It could be taken as an admission of failure by the most part of new investors who did not see such things in other famous blockchains, or at least they will be very dubitative, like the investors that I persuaded to invest into ICP, but eventually abandoned the idea when they learned about this potential new tokenomics : not because it was nit enough benefitable, but because they just found the thing strange. I really don't get the strategic point here. Let us not forget ICP must talk to newcomers, and this redesign does not talk to already in investors. Sometimes, not do anything is do the right thing.

-------------------------

ildefons | 2022-02-05 15:13:55 UTC | #68

Could you elaborate on what and why it could be taken as an admission of failure by the most part of new investors?

-------------------------

Roman | 2022-02-05 15:23:01 UTC | #69

Of course ! Because it looks like tokenomiks redesign with arbitrary and odd tricks,  rather than just develop the blockchain. I mean, I never heard about this kind of design or redesign before, in any other blockchain. It could appear like a despair measure to any other new investor because none other project, among the famous protocols, tries to impeach people to sell : they incentivize people to hold. I don't care if it changes personally, because I am in love with ICP, but the already in investors will not be enough to guarantee the sustainability of ICP, we need new blood ! So let us keep readable tokenomics. Plus, and again, not even one year passed.  But everyone has my point of view, so I will remain silent from now on, to let other people talk and add new views.

-------------------------

jwiegley | 2022-02-06 19:59:01 UTC | #70

Hi Roman, the current proposal has three distinct aspects to it:

1. Allow maturity to be compounded automatically.
2. Provide the basis for a tax argument that maturity is not income until it is realized in ICP.
3. Stabilize price as it relates to selling of minted tokens.

I think #1 is a no-brainer: many people want this, the implementation is straightforward, and we have some UI mock-ups already that I think neuron holders will really like.

#2 remains an open question: Will it have the desired impact on tax authority decisions? Is it enough or too much? This discussion is ongoing, and your feedback here is quite helpful. We summarize these chats from time to time, so that Dom and our CTO Jan Camenisch can stay updated on your thoughts.

#3 is perhaps the most contentious, and there are already some reasonable arguments that discounting maturity may not affect stability very much in the end, and we ought to let the tokenomics mature before thinking further in such terms.

What I'll note is that at present, the technical solution for both #2 and #3 is the same, so we should focus now on just the tax requirement.  The question is then: What will best protect people who transfer maturity into stake from having to constantly liquidate to cover taxes?

The recent Tezos decision is a great move in the right direction, but until it becomes part of the tax code, we cannot be certain this one court decision is enough.

-------------------------

kmanxhuka | 2022-02-05 23:50:06 UTC | #71

I don't know how this would help the network. I think that this contributes to less decentralisation, meanwhile we talk that the IC is web3.0... power to community... and so on. But this proposal speaks something else.

If you penalize a neuron holder, who contributes to more decentralised governance of the IC, by slashing his ICP from his maturity (which he earned by voting and contributing to decentralisation) by 30%, just because the price trend is down, then that contributor doesn't want to waste more energy on reading every governance proposal to understand it's impact on the network to know how should he vote, reading every discussion on forums and telegram channels for each proposal so he can decide where to cast his vote etc... to see all this contribution be slashed away just because some whales decided to dump a bag of ICP and tear down the price. 
How does this sound like decentralisation? It's more of a tyranny which punishes people for selling their goods cheap, than a free decision making for my well earned goods (maturity > ICP).

If the price goes high, and some whales disburse their bags of maturity and sell all that ICP, this would result on a price drop. Who's gonna disburse and sell then? Whales have the luxury to pay price analytics experts who can tell them when to disburse and when not. What choice would the average John Doe without price analysis expertise have:
- learn how to recognise price trends?
- pay for some trend analysers?
- sell on low price -30% yield?
- go away and look for some other staking blockchains?

The most damaged would be those ICP maximalists who will stay just because they love the tech, even if it means to be slashed away every time the price trend is red.

This is just my thinking on the results of this proposed tokenomics.

-------------------------

wpb | 2022-02-06 00:27:05 UTC | #72

Hey John,
I just wanted to let you know that I favor all 3 of the proposals at this time based on Dom’s article, but I do feel like more information is needed about the technical solution to make better educated decisions.  I encourage Dfinity to shape those ideas further before scaling them back too much.  I’m interested in learning more.

-------------------------

Roman | 2022-02-06 09:14:04 UTC | #73

Thanks a lot for your detailed answer John 🙏

-------------------------

dfisher | 2022-02-07 00:53:39 UTC | #74

John,

Thanks for your detailed explanations. Automatic compounding would be a game changer. I have a few clarifying questions. 

1. If I have an 8 year neuron, and I’d like to stake my maturity, would the “staked maturity” automatically be set to 8 year dissolve delay mirroring the neuron or could the staked maturity be set to a different length that is set at the time of staking? 

2. Will the unit of “staked maturity” have a different name such as “synapse”? For the sake of simplicity, I’ll use the term synapse below for the rest of my questions. 

3. Would be helpful if a neuron could be configured with various “synapses” each with their own dissolve delay attributes. Even with added complexity, this would be helpful if folks with an 8 year neuron want to funnel their maturity into a 6 month “synapse”. Will this be possible? 

Alternative is disbursing often in order to retake into new neurons with shorter delays which feels cumbersome and may have negative consequences. Those negative consequences could be both tax-related and also economic in terms of disbursed ICP if the price modulation passes. Folks should only disburse if they want liquid ICP, not if they would like to funnel their maturity into shorter dissolve delays on their synapses. 

4. How would merge neuron function with multiple neurons that each have a (or several) synapse(s)? 

5. What is the unit of account for a synapse? Maturity is measured in % terms. Would a synapse be the same? This may be tricky to calculate as we’ll be thinking through two or more percentages  - the % on the synapse and the % of the maturity, both of which will be based on ICP in the neuron. Perhaps the synapse can state it has XX ICP locked but provide a disclaimer that the XX is an approximation? I know the way I’ll think about it is I have XX ICP +/- 10% I won’t be looking at all the percentages. 

Cheers,
David

-------------------------

jwiegley | 2022-02-07 07:12:52 UTC | #75

Great questions, David!

1. The staked maturity shares the dissolve delay of the neuron. It is, for all intents and purposes, like unminted stake.

2. So far the most common name is "compounding maturity", but I don't know what the final terminology will be. That's up to Dom after the next design review.

3. Not possible, at least with the current design. It could be suggested in a future proposal.

4. Merge neuron would combine all stake, compounding maturity, and regular maturity.

5. The unit of account for compounding maturity is ICP equivalents, internally. It is presented as % in the current UI, but this is very likely to change.

-------------------------

memetics | 2022-02-07 09:18:22 UTC | #76

Why have such a small conglomerate of people decided to change tokenomics this way, despite clear community disagreements with the proposal

-------------------------

Roman | 2022-02-07 14:59:40 UTC | #77

In this model, I don’t understand the benefit of staking the maturity if it is automatically compounded. 

To say it differently, what would be the advantage of staking the maturity rather than just letting the maturity be automatically compounded. What does motivate someone to say : « I am going to stake the maturity accumulated, rather than letting it keep being compounded ».  

I understand why people would spawn, I understand also why people would accumulate maturity by automatically being compounded, but I don’t understand why they would stake the maturity. What is the strategy for such a person @jwiegley ? @dfisher, an idea ?

-------------------------

wpb | 2022-02-07 21:06:10 UTC | #78

I totally respect the point you are making about how there has been a vocal group participating in this discussion, but I also want to point out that we don’t really know if these comments represent a vocal minority of the community opinion or if they really are a majority opinion.  I personally feel like I need more information to have a firm opinion.  I think a lot of others are in the same situation.  

For example, we conducted an informal poll in the ICP Maximalist Network telegram group a couple days after Dom’s article came out.  There had been some discussion in the chat group, mostly people trying to figure it out.  The purpose was just to check the pulse of the community.  We asked the basic question: How would you vote?  As it stands today, the results are 25% Adopt, 45% Reject, 30% Undecided from 73 votes cast.

This is a tough subject in my opinion.  I personally think it needs more clarification before I can tell if it is something I would support, but I think there is good potential.  The topic statistics show that 28 users have contributed to this discussion, there have been 78 replies so far, and yet there have been over 1.3k views.  I think there are a lot of lurkers with interest.  Hence, I think it’s too soon to make a call on what the full community thinks.  I don’t think we will really know that until something is put to a vote in the NNS as a proposal.

This is why I personally think Dfinity should continue shaping the proposal and I appreciate that they are attempting to take community input into consideration.  I think it’s tough because opinions exist at all extremes at this time.

-------------------------

jwiegley | 2022-02-07 17:53:38 UTC | #79

Hi Roman, can you clarify what you mean by "staking the maturity"? I'm not clear on your question yet.

-------------------------

Roman | 2022-02-07 18:25:39 UTC | #80

My mistake John ! I misunderstood some messages above, because some fellows were speaking about compounding maturity and other ones were speaking about staking it. And I made a bad mix ! Sorry !

-------------------------

jwiegley | 2022-02-07 20:04:52 UTC | #81

I *think* that what people mean by staking maturity is to use the current "merge maturity" functionality to mint their maturity and transfer it immediately back into the stake of the neuron. This is a bit different from the auto-compounding maturity proposal, where the maturity will _act_ as though it had been staked in this way, but it won't ever actually be realized ICP. And since maturity is potentially subject to future governance proposals changes how it is realized, one could argue that this "staked maturity" is not an asset under your imminent domain.

-------------------------

mparikh | 2022-02-07 20:31:07 UTC | #82

Thanks , John. 

Under that proposal(auto compounding forever)  if for whatever reason, someone wants to take out ICP out of the maturity, how would one do that; assuming a 8 year staked neuron?

Apologies if this question has been addressed. I tried to look ; but couldn't find an answer.

-------------------------

jwiegley | 2022-02-08 00:24:34 UTC | #83

The compounded maturity is treating in almost all respects like the stake in the neuron. To turn it into tradable ICP, you'd have to dissolve the neuron and disburse the stake and the compounded maturity into your account. So it would take 8 years to receive that income.

-------------------------

kpeacock | 2022-02-08 00:30:10 UTC | #84

I'd love to have the ability to instruct my neuron:
* Automatically reinvest everything, or a % for 4 years (compounding interest)
* After that, disburse once a month (effectively dividends)

Being able to make those decisions so that my hands are tied would simplify my taxes pretty substantially. I have ADHD - I can't manage to refill my prescriptions consistently, let alone manually trigger a taxable event every month for the rest of my life

-------------------------

dfisher | 2022-02-08 03:09:26 UTC | #85

John,

Thanks for the straightforward and clear responses. Per the medium article “The Internet Computer’s Post-Genesis R&D Roadmap” the SNS is due to be released in Q2 during the Carbon phase. And as we know the SNS is broadly based on the NNS. 

Am I correct in thinking then that this proposed change to tokenomics will the proposed before the SNS is launched so it will be reflected in the SNS too? Ie, prior to the end of Q2?

-------------------------

mparikh | 2022-02-08 01:37:29 UTC | #86

I am not sure about the rest,  but i would certainly want to get at least my maturity BEFORE 8 years. ** In fact i was counting on it when i made the investment into IC. **

Would this feature be an opt-in feature?

-------------------------

nai2283 | 2022-02-08 01:44:25 UTC | #87

Thought the recent news of [IRS refund staking reward tax](https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/02/03/irs-offers-tezos-staker-refund-on-rewards-tax-in-break-from-current-policy/) make the proposal potentially irrelevant to the original purpose, or at least for the time being, no?

-------------------------

ajismyid | 2022-02-08 03:29:34 UTC | #89

Quote: *" To turn it into tradable ICP, you’d have to dissolve the neuron and disburse the stake and the compounded maturity into your account. So it would take 8 years to receive that income."*

If the mechanic is like this, It would be a major disaster for 8 years gangs that already plan to stake the principal, and want to live from the passive income monthly from the disburse maturity.

Auto compounded and merged maturity with this kind of mechanic, has to be an optional.

-------------------------

dfisher | 2022-02-08 04:33:46 UTC | #90

If I understand it correctly, we would have 3 buckets:

1. Staked ICP 
2. Compounded Maturity
3. Maturity

You could still live off the maturity if you chose not to compound it and rather disburse it. 

But would there be an option to continually and automatically move the maturity into compound maturity or would we still need to manually do this @jwiegley?

-------------------------

tsetse | 2022-02-08 04:00:34 UTC | #91

An NNS proposal and vote won't give us a better idea of what the community thinks. It will just provide the majority opinion of the few whales who have lots of voting power and the few devs who have recently been given lots of voting power. Given the low voting levels on the NNS, less than 28 people in total could probably decide the vote, fewer than have expressed their opinion on this thread.

-------------------------

OVVOVVO | 2022-02-08 04:18:04 UTC | #92

I am an investor with a neuron locked for many years who has been following this forum for many months, now with my first comment to contribute.  I believe the Internet Computer will revolutionize world computing.  I completely believe in this technology and that is why I invested in it.

In my opinion, Features #2 & #3 make sense.  #2 is not invasive relative to the long-term investment benefits that drew me, and no doubt other investors, to the IC.  Staking the maturity inside the neuron and never even converting it into ICP, while still building voting power, makes total sense.  And for those who want to convert some or all maturity into newly minted ICP and cash out, being fully aware that this will be a taxable event, then #3 provides that flexibility.

Feature #1, with its price trend modulation and use of coefficients, seems like overreach and introduces very undesirable elements of uncertainty to investors, both current and future.  Features #2 & #3 stick to the point - namely, to address possible unfair taxation issues.  A maturity merging mechanism ("hardening" the system against unreasonable taxation) and maturity dispersal mechanism (to give people the freedom to reap some rewards when they choose) is straightforward and keeps these governance changes lean and focused.

I propose that, when the time comes to vote on these governance matters, they be issued as three separate proposals (if that wasn't stated already).

My thanks to Dom for such forward thinking!

-------------------------

wpb | 2022-02-08 04:40:07 UTC | #93

Thanks for your contribution here.  I appreciate your detailed analysis and especially like that you offered a clearly actionable suggestion in conclusion.  That’s a solid first contribution on the forum.  I’m looking forward to hearing more from you in the future.

-------------------------

dfisher | 2022-02-08 05:13:56 UTC | #94

Splitting the vote into 3 separate proposals is a great idea given how contentious price modulation is.

It is worth recognizing, to Dom’s credit though, that not having the price modulation may cause the tax authorities to treat accumulated maturity as income. They may argue that 1 week to disbursal is effectively liquid. Ie, proposals #2 and #3 alone without price modulation may not be sufficient to keep the tax authorities away. 

I’ve confirmed with CPAs that the most recent case of the Nashville stakers who were refunded is not yet conclusive. We need additional guidance from the IRS. 

I previously stated that I didn’t think it was possible to trick the IRS with price modulation. Upon reflection, price modulation does make income literally impossible to calculate so I’m not sure how the IRS would expect folks to do it.

I also previously stated that price modulation would make people price obsessed. Upon reflection, I also do not believe this to be the case since the amount of ICP that maturity can generate is only relevant when disbursing ICP. I can go on my merry way compounding maturity without worrying about the price, which I did not fully appreciate before. It may make the people who were planning on converting their maturity into liquid ICP price obsessed, but that’s ok and maybe even a good thing. Hopefully those people will disburse less during down trends and disburse more during up trends. 

The only real downsides I see are 1) added complexity to all 3 proposals which may scare people away and 2) on price modulation, it may scare people away who want a consistent liquid ICP income. 

On balance, I agree that proposals #1 and #2 are solid suggestions despite added complexity and proposal #3 is likely a good thing for tax reasons and incentive nudges. 

I must say my opinions have swung pretty wildly on this over the past few days as I’ve given thought to it. Changes to tokenomics unless explained very clearly do set off a lot of alarm bells for people. Before any NNS proposals are put forth I do think a much more detailed description should be put out there to allay people’s fears as it’s a super sensitive issue.

-------------------------

OVVOVVO | 2022-02-08 06:03:22 UTC | #95

Your comments on proposed Feature #1 raise some important points that put it in a more positive light - thank you!

Regarding price trend modulation:  "is only relevant when disbursing ICP...go on my merry way compounding maturity without worrying about the price"

If that's a completely true statement, then the Feature #1 mechanism would not seem to be as much a hindrance to long-term investors, current and future, while providing maximum tax liability protection.  The crypto market can obviously be quite volatile.  For those who believe in the IC, however, we see tremendous technological growth naturally creating asset growth.

It would be great if, prior to voting through the NNS, we could receive official Dfinity clarity on this particular point to proposed Feature #1 - that price trend modulation really has no effect on those investors focused on compounding maturity inside their neurons. If that's the case, then Feature #1 gets my vote!  And if, in the next several years this tax issue on maturity gets resolved, we can always vote again and discontinue price trend modulation.

-------------------------

chepreghy | 2022-02-08 07:59:07 UTC | #96

Completely agree with Kyle here. Many of us would want to have neurons locked for 4-8 years and only have them compound for the first 4-6 years. However after that at least a few neurons can serve as dividend neurons while the rest keeps compounding.

-------------------------

Roman | 2022-02-08 08:04:46 UTC | #97

As I understand it, it will be automatically compounded, more precisely the maturity will be simultaneously generated and compounded, the manual operation is the disbursing of the maturity.

-------------------------

earlyinv96 | 2022-02-08 11:29:21 UTC | #98

Am I the only one who thinks that it  all boils down to how many ICPs are burned? I mean there is no problem on the long run if staking rewards get reduced and ic coin burn rate increases.. a well balanced system could fix it all.

-------------------------

Roman | 2022-02-08 11:44:37 UTC | #99

I agree with you. And this number has just started its ascending. It will explode soon.

-------------------------

earlyinv96 | 2022-02-08 12:03:57 UTC | #100

Well I don’t wanna fall into optimistic thoughts just because 90% of community members are icps holders but to me the real game is being played on developing new dApps/sites and so on (services in general) let’s see how it evolves

-------------------------

Roman | 2022-02-08 15:00:16 UTC | #101

I have already talked about it, but even the long term investors will suffer of this modulation, because icpmaximalist investors like me and other fellows are both ICP investors and not considering ICP price ! 

More precisely, a lot of ICP investors don’t look at the price anymore, because they think with an ICP view, through the ICP as a whole ecosystem. So they don’t want to disburse ICP to sell them for fiat, but they want to disburse ICP to evolve into the ecosystem like by buying NFT or use ICP (token) in different manners into ICP (ecosystem). These investors, icpmaximalist, will suffer by being punished for the ICP price, whereas they never intended to sell any ICP but just want to use them as ICP. This proposal forget totally this people, it sees all investors just as investors wanting to sell their ICP, but a lot of current and potential investors are not. 

This proposal only consider the passage from a currency to ICP and the return from ICP to another currency. By modulating, it will make these icpmaximalist investors stressed about the moment to disburse, they will use less the disburse and they will less reinject ICP into the ecosystem and eventually the ecosystem will suffer of this circulation slow down. Because as you know, any economy suffers from the fact that people prefer not spend their money rather than inject it back into the economy. It is the same here : you will have investors with ICP, but not injecting ICP to feed the ICP ecosystem anymore. 

I think this is an error. This proposal will provoke a loss of spontaneity and circulation of icp, because people will be scary about not disbursing at the optimal moment, whereas they always were just wanting to disburse their ICP (token) as ICP (token) into the ICP (ecosystem). 

To recap : this proposal make a distinction disappear : the distinction between pure speculators about ICP and investors who love the ecosystem and disburse their ICP only to use them into the ecosystem. For example, I never sold an ICP since may 2021, but I disburse a lot to use it into the ecosystem, but once such a proposal passed, I won’t do as much as I currently do, because I won’t take the risk of suffer of a price in fiat whereas I am not concerned by this price. By not doing this distinction , the ICP will just be like BTC, an asset to substitute gold, but ICP was designed to be a parallel world where the price crash should not have consequence on the spontaneity to disburse and evolve until the ecosystem. But by adopting this proposal, the ICP will be very alive during the bull run, but during the bear market, nobody will disburse, and the whole ICP ecosystem will slow down. Is this what we want ? An ecosystem slowing down or accelerating depending on the prices trends ? Because you are proposing a correlation between the price of ICP and the ICP fluidity here. It will be very bad to ICP to have its behavior driven by the prices, because people don’t go less on internet when the prices are low… but here, you are preparing the fact that when the price will be low, all the ecosystem activity will be weaker. You are not only incentivizing people to not sell, you are incentivizing to not disburse their ICP to inject them back into the ICP (ecosystem), you will make investors reluctant to disburse icp and making the ecosystem living by consuming into the ICP. Any economy would die of this, a country is ill when people accumulate money but don't spend and reinject it into the economy. Let us not forget macroeconomical realities. 

You never intended to create gold, you wanted to create a sort of gas to drive into the icp. For Gold, people will go toward BTC. ICP never was thought as a token to accumulate and not to disburse, **you are supposed to want us to disburse **maximally** to spend it maximally into the ecosystem and so generate a maximum of circulation.** During the bear market, not only the sales will slow down, but also the disbursing and by consequence the whole activity (fed by the icp disbursing and circulating) of the the ecosystem.

In a word, there is a whole world between letting maturity compounding, and spawning it to sell it as ICP : this world is named "ICP" (ecosystem) where we are supposed to live with ICP (token) as an internal "pulse" ; with this proposal, you will kill the circulation of ICP (token) and the development of ICP (ecosystem).

The « you » is not for you @OVVOVVO ! 😉 but for @jwiegley and @dominicwilliams

-------------------------

jonit | 2022-02-08 14:10:55 UTC | #102

this is a great point, NFT sales would suffer if people are penalised for extracting reward ICP when the market is down.

-------------------------

Roman | 2022-02-08 14:49:45 UTC | #103

As everything coming and requiring ICP (token) : Dex, Gamefi, DeInsurance, etc. All what is supposed to be developed on the ecosystem. And during the bear markets people will be waiting so long for having an optimal ICP disbursing, that once the market will be better, they will sell off to not be stuck again during weeks or months, and the market will dump again... even if the rest of the market don't. Because people will be paranoid about the thought that everybody will want to run out by selling during there will be still time, before all other fellows could run out. They will do this maybe to buy lower, or maybe not and just run out of what they will live as a "traping" rollercoaster. This proposal will be an incentivizing to not disburse, and run out asap once the market will be better.

-------------------------

wpb | 2022-02-08 14:42:20 UTC | #104

I think you are making a strong argument here.  It certainly gives me more to think about.  Thanks for sharing.

-------------------------

