ScttyCrypt0 | 2024-07-16 23:38:29 UTC | #1

Hello IC Dev Community - I hope this message finds you well. My name is Scott, and I am currently in the R&D phase of an exciting new project. This is an ambitious project in the e-commerce space I am reaching out to seek your expertise and insights regarding the IC's capabilities. I have grown up in this space, started/exited 2 businesses, worked for Fortune500 companies, I know this opportunity is real - if I can find the right partners...

Project Overview:

While I can't elaborate more publicly, our project aims to leverage the unique capabilities of ICP to build fully on-chain experience in retail. We are at a crossroads in our purchasing experience. I believe that ICP's fully web3 decentralization and its scalability are key to achieving the project's objectives, and i'm eager to explore its potential in depth.

Consultation Objectives:

1. Technology Readiness: Evaluate whether ICP's current state aligns with the technical requirements of our project.
2. Requirements Gathering: Identify and document all technical, functional, and non-functional requirements necessary for developing a Minimum Viable Product (MVP).
3. Long-term Viability: Assess the long-term feasibility and scalability of using ICP for the project's growth and evolution.
4. Partnership Exploration: Discuss the potential for establishing a long-term partnership for ongoing development, implementation, and support.

Why I Need Your Expertise:

Your experience and knowledge in working with ICP is invaluable to me. I am discovering that the pool of qualified devs is relatively low (in fact may be a major bottleneck to IC's growth as a whole), and as a result I'm willing to compensate you for your time and expertise once we align on a contract. More importantly, I hope to build a collaborative relationship that could extend into a long-term partnership, contributing to the success of this innovative project. Equity is an option as well, depending on interest.

I will also preface that you don't need to have an impeccable dev background. Rather, willingness to learn and explore, ask questions, and dig deep on a complicated problem worth solving. If you do have experience with working with large data sets, and familiarity with the architecture stack of large-scale B2C enterprises, that's a plus.

Next Steps:

If you are available for a consultation, please let me know your availability and preferred rate for an initial session by emailing me below. I'm also happy to discuss more specific questions if you ping me directly. I'm relatively flexible and can adapt to your schedule. Additionally, I'm open to any format of engagement that you prefer, whether it be a video call, detailed email exchange, or any other method that works best for you.

Thank you for considering our request. I'm excited about the possibilities that lie ahead and look forward to the opportunity to work with you.

Best regards,

Scott
scottystartup@gmail.com

-------------------------

lastmjs | 2024-07-17 12:54:02 UTC | #2

Happy to answer questions and get you oriented, I sent an email

-------------------------

