superduper | 2022-05-01 18:38:08 UTC | #1

Right now inflation is a function of the voting  related staking rewards and icp created to reward nodes.

I suggest that we hold some discussion over when annualized node rewards equal some X% of total icp supply that the Dao should put in place some mechanism to re-allocate some of the voting inflation to cover node payments in order to keep in check aggregate system inflation  

This could also act as an added incentive for holders to promote the icp to potential users so that demand for cycles is generated and so that we may protect our rewards while protecting price and keeping inflation in check

Thoughts?

-------------------------

wpb | 2022-05-01 21:03:52 UTC | #2

Node provider rewards is such a small percentage of ICP inflation that I have a hard time believing it will become a problem any time soon.  If ICP price gets to less than $2 for more than 6 months then perhaps it will be a problem.  

I would love to see someone perform actual calculations that show when node provider rewards would actually compete with voting rewards in terms of minted ICP.  This analysis needs to include price points and duration for when node provider rewards equal voting rewards that are earned.  It probably should also include how much voting rewards is actually minted, not just what is earned.  Most voting rewards are sitting in neurons as maturity and have not been minted.

-------------------------

superduper | 2022-05-01 21:13:48 UTC | #3

indeed, i hope you are correct but i think i would be better to be prepared and at least have a game plan for what if scenarios such as this. 

yes it would be interesting to see some sort of analysis of how many nodes = how much bandwidth/cycles/memory/etc = costs.  as the network grows the total costs naturally will increase

another scenario: if the network were to, for example, experience a 10X growth in scale due to some popular apps which of course may be coupled with burning ICP for cycles, and then for whatever reason there was a significant drop in usage we might experience problems at a higher ICP price point. 

one can also imagine that in order for the IC to be able to massive scaling for developers that nodes would need to be provisioned in anticipation of the growth.

-------------------------

