dfisher | 2024-07-28 10:54:27 UTC | #1

Hi team, another suggestion for you. Today, asking accountants to track tokens and neurons for ICP and SNS tokens is a total disaster using II for a variety of reasons. 

1. Maturity is not public. This means that it is not possible to look up a neuron ID and find the maturity on the dashboard. Conversion of maturity into dissolving neurons is also a transaction that is not possible to see or track on the public dashboard. 

2. Even if these transactions were public, sometimes SNS projects create so many neurons with so many neuron IDs it is a nightmare for other people to look them up in the public dashboard if you are not looking at them from within the NNS dApp UI. 

3. This problem can be solved using hardware wallets, but there's a whole host of issues using hardware wallets which I covered in a separate post. 

I would like to suggest something super super SIMPLE that can be achieved without much of a lift. It would be great if we could grant viewing access, or AUDITOR mode, to other Internet Identities. This would re-create the NNS dApp UI we all know and love for accountants and other providers. Eventualy we are going to need something much more sophisticated, but for now an Auditor Mode version would be amazing. If thats not possible, even a button that one could click that would generate a PDF of everything that one could share would be immensely helpful. 

What do you think @chepreghy? From a UI perspective it seems easy, I am just not sure it is from a technical standpoint.

-------------------------

chepreghy | 2024-08-05 07:52:01 UTC | #2

Hey, thank you for the comment! I don't fully understand all the security and privacy implications of doing something like this. My sense is that both will need a lot of work to ensure adequate security  and privacy.

We have been thinking more along the lines of introducing an "Export" button to the NNS dapp that will create some kind of snapshot of all your neurons, including maturity and TXs. I don't yet know what will be included in it, we need to think carefully about it. Will write a detailed forum post to request for comments once we get closer. Do you think that would help with the problem you outlined?

-------------------------

dfisher | 2024-08-05 12:15:18 UTC | #3

Yes that would help a lot. It would be kind of annoying still as the feed would be a manual one - people would still need to manually export and share with their accountants. Really it would be ideal if one day there could be an API that could be shared with the accounting softwares.

All that said, adding an Export button would be a lot better than what exist today.

-------------------------

dfisher | 2024-08-05 14:34:35 UTC | #4

Tagging @peterparker as my feedback applies to Oisy too

-------------------------

peterparker | 2024-08-05 15:16:48 UTC | #5

I forwarded your feedback to my colleagues of Oisy.

-------------------------

