BitcoinRenegade | 2024-05-21 00:38:25 UTC | #1

Introduction:

We propose listing the $RENEGADE Token on Open Chat to foster community engagement, promote the $RENEGADE ecosystem, increase visibility of the ICPRenegades NFT Collection and GTR Web 3 Motorcycle Racing Game. Demo available now.

Tokenomics:

Total Supply: 1 Billion

Distribution:

Liquidity Pool (LP): 70%

Airdrop: 10%

Team: 10%

Marketing: 5%

Incentives: 5%

Community Engagement:

Open Chat will serve as a platform for engaging with the community, facilitating discussions, and sharing updates related to the $RENEGADE ecosystem and ICPRenegades NFT Collection and GTR Web 3 Racing Game. Community members will have the opportunity to participate in discussions, provide feedback, and contribute ideas for ecosystem development earn tokens in an in game economy as well as use NFT’s in Game as skins.

Promotion and Visibility:

The listing on Open Chat will enhance the visibility of the $RENEGADE Token GTR Motorcycle Racing Game and ICPRenegades NFT Collection, attracting a broader audience and fostering interest in the ecosystem. Regular updates, announcements, and promotional activities will be shared on the platform to maintain community engagement and awareness.

Token Utility:

$RENEGADE tokens will be used for rewarding NFT holders, community participation, access to exclusive features, rewarded for content Creation, integration with the ICPRenegades NFT Collection into our Web 3 Racing Game GTR (Gran Turbo Renegades).

Conclusion:

Listing $RENEGADE Token on Open Chat aligns with our vision to foster community engagement, promote the $RENEGADE ecosystem, increase visibility of the ICPRenegades NFT Collection and give users to earn tokens in game. We believe that this proposal will contribute to the growth and success of the $RENEGADE ecosystem, fostering a thriving and inclusive community.

Thank you for considering this proposal. We look forward to collaborating with Open Chat and the community to realize the potential of $RENEGADE Token.

-------------------------

