dfisher | 2024-08-22 21:19:23 UTC | #1

Hi @Dylan, 

Given SNS rewards work differently to ICP rewards, it would be helpful to add some statistics to the SNS dashboard, notably:

Daily maturity 
Total SNS tokens locked 

This will enabled folks to calculate an aggregate “maturity yield”.

Would that be possible? For ICP, I am able to use the dashboard to calculate the figures and it’s super helpful for me.

Also tagging @aterga and @lara

-------------------------

Dylan | 2024-08-22 20:50:04 UTC | #2

Thanks for the suggestion, @dfisher! I will make a note of it and we'll consider it.

Daily maturity is exposed by the SNS code, but I don't think that total staked tokens is currently exposed (though it can be calculated by adding up the staked tokens of all neurons).

Historical data for these metrics is not currently being recorded by either the SNS code or the ICP Dashboard backend, so no historical data is available. If this were to be implemented, it would only be for data going forward.

-------------------------

dfisher | 2024-08-22 21:17:59 UTC | #3

Appreciate the receptivity to the suggestion.

I’d like to add one more if I may for both ICP and SNS neurons. 

Right now, we can find daily maturity on the ICP dashboard, but we do not know the “maturity yield” of the network. In order to calculate the “maturity yield”, I need to annualize daily maturity and divide it by total tokens staked.

It would be helpful to know maturity yield for the network as a whole, and it also would be helpful to know maturity yield on my specific neurons inside of the NNS dApp. I actually calculate it every month manually. It is a manual, annoying and time consuming process, and I need to check the maturity on the exact same day once a month (a daily version annualized would be better). 

As an investor, I’d like to know what kind of yield I’m getting. It’s helpful for forecasting and financial planning, and would be a great help.

Given that includes a NNS dApp suggestion, I’ll also tag @chepreghy

-------------------------

