estatedao | 2024-07-19 12:10:06 UTC | #1

Estate DAO is a decentralized Vacation Rental platform, akin to Airbnb, but with a unique feature – the option to tokenize Vacation Real Estate. In essence, users can not only own fractions of vacation rental properties worldwide but also enjoy stays in their partially-owned rentals, while generating passive income from these Real-World Assets. EstateDAO marks the beginning of a revolutionary path, seamlessly merging the security of Real Estate Assets with the cutting-edge capabilities of blockchain technology, all powered by the Internet Computer Protocol (ICP).

The platform is an ideal fit for the ICP ecosystem because of its technological prowess. By leveraging ICP's capabilities, EstateDAO transforms real estate from an illiquid asset to a liquid one, offering enhanced security and giving communities direct control. The entire application is hosted on-chain, except for the Know-Your-Customer (KYC) process. This brings in a level of transparency which was not possible without the Internet Computer. Furthermore, EstateDAO is already a community-owned DAO after having undergone the SNS decentralization sale, making the community the primary stakeholder in the project (again something not possible outside IC).

To attract users, EstateDAO will cut down on high fees typically charged to hosts and guests, making it an attractive option for budget-conscious travellers, especially digital nomads. To spread awareness about the product, we will build community, we will partner with reputable real estate firms to build industry validation, and provide resources to users - such as seminars to educate users on the advantages of ICP blockchain in real estate, including improved security, transaction transparency, and efficiency gains.

EstateDAO's user-friendly platform ensures a seamless customer experience, helping users navigate and utilise the platform easily. EstateDAO's vision aligns with the ICP ecosystem's goal of empowering communities by giving back control. The project aims for regulatory compliance and scalability. We also aim to community empowerment and we are committed to creating a seamless platform where users can invest in and book stays at properties.

Visit our [website](https://www.estatedao.org/) and read our [whitepaper](https://www.estatedao.org/_files/ugd/1f4d25_11fa88bbc5ed4ed7bb3f8d40aa3918f3.pdf) for more information on the project. You may also connect with us on [Twitter](https://x.com/EstateDAO_ICP). Thank you!

-------------------------

