jdchibuk | 2024-01-09 16:51:28 UTC | #1

Project highlights: This reference canister project is a blockchain-enabled toolkit designed to enhance the data control for users who are looking for additional control of their data and in the future explore new opportunities to get value from it. Our target users early adopters in the wearable device market (bio-hackers and quantified self enthusiasts) who are looking at different ways to collected health data, take further control of their data and unlock new ways to use it. Some potential use cases for blockchain stored data include anonymous comparison across multiple devices, and exchanging for participating in market studies or health studies. 

Web3 advantages: Traditional web2 tooling requires a 3rd party business to act as the intermediary between users and data. Blockchain storage can enable an independent exchange of data and comparsion without having the data locked into a 3rd party platform. This toolkit offers the basis for read data from an API, placing on the blockchain, exporting it and deleting it. 

How is it built: We have deployed an example frontend and backend canister onto the ICP network using Blueberry data API as a reference. We have integrated ICP and web3 wallet login for defining a user identity key for storage data on an ICP canister. 

Internet Computer superpowers: ICP made is super simple to make HTTP outcalls to enable direct storage of data onto a canister. ICP also enable hosting of a front end at the same time to a backend interface through a single project upload onto ICP.

Go-to-market: We are currently exploring how we could run an initial pilot where we request data and remunerate from a small cohort of participants. We are still validating the method of how best we will accomplish this.

Monetization: One potential avenue to monetize this project would be through a transaction fee as part of providing the service to facilitate data transfer between users and businesses or researchers requesting data.

Status of project: Currently the project is a proof of concept enabling the transfer of wearable health data from a 3rd API (blueberry used as an example) onto the internet computer. So far we have accomplish validating API calls, web3 identity login (ICP and web3 wallet (sequence) on an ICP canister. 

Future plans: We are looking to enable multiple devices APIs, saving data directly onto an ICP canister from a mobile application and building out a simple exchange system for businesses and researchers to post data requests that users can provide data towards for renumeration. We are exploring options to extend the utility of this reference toolkit.

Resources: 
ICP front-end: https://pa64a-oqaaa-aaaan-qllka-cai.icp0.io/ 
ICP backend canister: https://a4gq6-oaaaa-aaaab-qaa4q-cai.raw.icp0.io/?id=pvznn-pyaaa-aaaan-qlljq-cai
source code: https://github.com/blueberryxtech/ic-mind-body-canister

-------------------------

